1.1 What is Check Out Line?

Check Out Line is a game about strategic decisions whereby a grid of randomly placed shopping carts of various colours (‘r’ represents a red cart, ‘y’ represents yellow, etc.) is generated and the user attempts to eliminate the shopping carts in as few moves as possible. The user eliminates the carts by choosing to remove a shopping cart which also eliminates all shopping carts of the same colour that have been randomly placed either vertically and/or horizontally around it. The score is calculated by the square of the number of carts the user eliminates per move, stacking additively with previous moves. Once the game recognizes that there are no further moves (evident when no more than one cart can be eliminated at a time), the game will end and your score is displayed.

1.2 How to play Check Out Line?

The team’s version of Check Out Line is coded in C. One may start the game by double clicking the Checkoutline.exe file. A small black window will appear and will offer you 3 options: To generate a random grid, to get a grid from a file, or to exit the game. If you choose to generate a random grid, the computer will ask you to specify the dimensions of the grid. If you choose to get a grid from a file, it will ask you to specify the file name and an error message will appear if the file name does not exist (the available files are SmallGrid.txt (8x8), MediumGrid.txt (12x20), and LargeGrid.txt (36x36)).

Regardless of the option (with the exception of “exit game” of course), the program will generate a random grid of r’s, b’s, y’s, and g’s for the user and once again offers 3 options: interactive play, computer play, or to exit the game. If you choose interactive play, the program will immediately prompt the user for coordinates, which are listed below the first row and before the first column of the grid (will first ask for rows, then columns). As explained in Section 1.1, if the letter corresponding to the user’s coordinate input has the same letter to the right, left, above, below, or any combination of these (but NOT diagonally); the letters will disappear and the columns collapse to remove the created gap. If the letters of an entire column have been eliminated, the immediate right column shifts in to fill the empty column. Your score/coordinate inputs are recorded in a log file and the program continues to prompt the user for coordinates until there are no more possible moves.

If you choose computer play, the exact same process occurs, however the user can sit back and watch the computer strategically pick coordinates to eliminate instead of the user. In our version of Check Out Line, the computer manages to choose the best coordinates (that is, spots corresponding to the largest number of the same neighboring carts) for elimination and just like the interactive play option, the computer’s coordinate inputs/score is recorded in a separate log.
